-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-- File Name     : *.sql

-- Author        : Alex(Zhouyang Zheng)

-- Corporation	 : Cloud Creek Systems, Inc.

-- Call Syntax   : start path/*.sql from sql*plus

-- Requirements  : Access Privileges

-- Last Modified : 01/21/2018

-- Description   : RMAN Concepts

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.  Failure Types : Media Failures, User Errors, Application Errors
	
	Media Failures: Physical problem on disk, failed to read or write on the data file
		disaster recovery strategy such as standby database protect againt catestrophic data loss, e.g. entire database lost
		
	User Errors:
		data in database is changed or deleted incorrectly, caused by application logical or manual mistakes
		data loss can be localized or widespread.
			e.g. delete a wrong person in employee table 				   =====> localized
				 batch jobs delete company entire orders for current month =====> widespread
		manage user privileges properly and backup strategy detemines how gracefully you can recover the data loss
				 
	Application Errors:
		Sometimes a software malfunction could cause corrupt data blocks.
			physical corruption, also can be called media corruption, database can't recongize the block at all, 
				the checksum is invalid, the blocks contains all ZEROS or the header and footer of the block don't match
				If the corruption is not extensive, you can often repair it eaily with block media recovery

2.	Data Archival

	archival backup is to keep historical data, not serves for disaster recovery strategy.
		e.g. backup database at the end of a business quarter
		
3. Data Transfer

	backup of a database or database component and move it the another location.
		e.g. create a database copy, create a tablespace copy and import into another database,move an entire database from one platform to another one 

4. RMAN BACKUPS ADVS
	Incremental Backups : stores only block changes since previous backup. 
		more compact backups and faster recovery, thus reduce the need to apply redo during data file media recovery
		If block change tracking is enabled, the recovery performance will be improved becuase no need to full scan input data files
		
	Block Media Recovery: allows DBA to repair a data file with only a small number of corrupt blocks without taking it offline or restoring it from backup.
	
	Binary compression: compression reduces the size of backups
	
	Encrypted backups : binary encryption to store backup sets in an encrypted format.Need additional option to use this features
	
	Automated database duplication : easily create a copy of your database,supporting various storage configurations, including direct duplication from ASM databases
	
	Corss-platform data conversion


5. Logical flashback
	It relies on undo data. Provide qucik fix on data loss without the need to restore the database.
	No need to expand this topic in RMAN notes
	
6. Data recovery advisor
	Data Recovery Advisor:
		automatically diagnoses persistent data failures,
		presents appropriate repair options,
		executes repairs at your request
	A failure can be directly mapped to a set of repair actions.
	Each failure has a status of open or closed
	Each failure has a prority of crtical , high or low
	Data integrity check can detected a failure and mapped it to a set of repaid options
	repair option may include data file restore and recovery, media recovery,flashback database or so on
	If you choose automated repair option, Data Recovery Advisor